# Overview of Container Architecture
VServer was the first attempt at running complete sets of processes inside a single server with a high degree of isolation. From VServer, the idea of isolated processes further evolved and become formalized around the following features of the Linux kernel:

**Namespaces**
A namespace isolates specific system resources that are normally visible to all processes. Within a namespace, only processes that are members of that namespace can see those resources. Namespaces can include resources like network interfaces, the process ID list, mount points, IPC(Inter-Process Communication) resources, and more. 

**Control groups(cgroups)**
Control groups partition sets of processes and their children into groups to manage and limit the resources they consume. They also place restrictions on the amount of system resources a process might use in order to prvent one process from using too many resources on the host.

**Seccomp**
Secure computing mode(Seccomp) limits how processes can use system calls. It defines a security profile for processes that lists the system calls, parameters and file descriptors they are allowed to use.

**SELinux**
Security-Enhanced Linux(SELinux) is a mandatory access control system for processes. The Linux kernel uses SELinux to protect processes from each other and to protect the host system from its running processes.

## Describing Linux Container Architecture
From the Linux kernel perspective, a container is a process with restrictions. However, instead of running a single binary file, a container runs an image. An image is a file-system bundle that contains all the dependencies required to execute a process: files, installed packages, available resources, running processes, and kernel modules.

Container images need to be locally available for the container runtime to execute them, but they are usually stored and maintained in an image repository. Here are a few different image repositories:
- Red Hat Container Catalog
- Red Hat Quay
- Docker Hub
- Google Container Registry
- Amazon Elastic Container Registry

## Managing Containers with Podman
Podman is an open source tool for managing containers, container images and interacting with image registries. Here are some of its key features:
- It uses image format specified by the Open Container Initiative(OCI). 
- Podman stores local images in local file-system. This avoids unnecessary client/server arhitecture or having daemons running on the local machine. 
- Podman follows the same command patterns as Docker CLI
- Podman is compatible with Kubernetes. Kubernetes can use Podman to manage its containers.

Next section: [Overview of Kubernetes and OpenShift](./1.3_overview_of_kubernetes_openshift.md)
